---
layout: post
title:      "Discovering Data "
date:       2020-07-08 21:12:43 +0000
permalink:  discovering_data
---

Since graduating high school in 2013 I have found it difficult to settle into one particular career path. My interests seem to be eclectic and ever-changing. My initial instinct after high school was to pursue a creative career, acting. After immersing myself in that field for a few years, I realized that I wanted to make a greater positive impact on the world. Acting felt very 'self-focused' and I realized that a more fulfilling career for me may be one focused more on helping others. With this in mind, I decided to shift gears and pursue a career in nonprofits. I moved from Los Angeles to Colorado and began a Bachelor's degree in Public Service. I spent the next two years learning about what it takes to be a public servant. I started my final semester this past January and began interning at a local nonprofit. Mid-internship an employee left and I was asked to work part-time in addition to my internship. A week later the shutdown due to COVID-19 began. One thing after another occured and quickly I became completely immersed in the tumultuous ups and downs of a young, small nonprofit. As I prepared for graduation, the overwhelming experience forced me to re-evaluate my career goals and my interests. 

*How did I fit into the nonprofit world?* *What skills did I have that were useful?* *Where did I excel?* *What kind of work did I want to be doing?* *What kind of work did I not like doing?*

I wrestled with these questions for weeks. I knew I wasn't happy in the environment I was in, and I knew I needed to find a skill that would make me stand out. At work I observed a general lack of knowledge around technology and data. My coworkers would often ask me for help with technology and data. My rudimentary knowledge and problem solving skills when it came to technology seemed to stand out from my coworkers. I also realized that I prefered the data management and technology side of the work I was doing more than the outreach and communications side. Gradually it became clear to me that my strengths leaned toward background technology and data work rather than project management. Then one day I saw an ad for a data science bootcamp. Maybe I could do that, I thought to myself. Once I realized the work that I enjoyed most at my internship involved working with data, I was convinced. This is what I could specialize in, this is what could set me apart. 

However, making the leap to start data science was not easy. I often struggle with confidence in my abilities. I like to tell myself that I cannot do things, that I am not smart enough, and that everything will be too hard. I know that these insecurities are not true. I know that even if something is hard that it doesn’t mean it is not worth doing. However, it is often difficult for me to turn these insecurities off. Luckily, with the unyielding support of my family, along with the motivation I have for this career path, I have been able to push past these insecurities and dive into data science. I look forward to exploring the field and my abilities over the next 10 months as I work through the part-time data science boot camp at Flatiron. To make this experience worthwhile I have made a few promises to myself: I promise to keep a growth mindset even when it’s hard; I promise to reach out to others when I need help; I promise to put in extra effort when I need it; and I promise not to give up on myself, even when the going gets tough.  

